# How to Run Daw

## Available Services

Daw gives you access to web services known in Daw as operations which are published by modules that Daw provides or that you or any corporation/user may have implemented.

### Command Line

You can run Daw directly from command line using Daw binary available in the *bin/* application directory. For executing an operation, just run the following:

    $> daw [object] [operation] [args]
    $> cat data.yml | Daw -d [object] [operation]


*[operation]* may be [module.operation] to prevent any conflict if more than one module has same operation name for same object


### API Web service

An API is also available via a web service and which offers the same functionnality than the command line interface.

You can access any of the data by accessing URLs like the follwing:

    http[s]://${host>:${port}/operation?args
    http[s]://${host>:${port}/object/operation?args

Both GET and POST methods are allowed. It is up to the user to define in which condition it is more suitable to use each method (consider data size and security).


### HTTP Service

This service is basically a web UI frontend built on top of the API service. It allows users to see all module, objects and operations available to them, and can be a base for building your own web application.


## Access external data

Using Daw, accessing 3rd party vendor application data may be as easy as installing a Daw module.

Just find in [Daw module repository](https://github.com/extendev/daw-modules/) the one that implements access to the required application, install it in your *modules/* directory and start playing with their data the same way you did it with your own data.

And if you cannot find the module, help us by contributing to the project!


## List of operations

Getting the list of all available operations is possible by calling the *operation.list* operation:

    CLI: daw operation list
    HTTP: http://<my-daw-server>/operation/list
