# Modules

## What is a module?

### Module structure



#### Module.inc

Create the file in your module directory and append the following code.

    <?php

    namespace \Daw\Modules\<my module directory>;

    /**
     * My Module base class
     *
     * @package Daw
     * @subpackage Module<My Module Name>
     */
    class Module extends \Daw\Core\Module\Module {
    }


### module.info

This file contains the description of the module and all objects, operations, providers he wants to publish to the users. Below is the minimal contents of what the file shall be composed of:

    # Module Description
    #
    # @version $Id$
    # @author Axel Tessier <axel.tessier@extendev.net>

    name: <Name of your Module>
    version: 1.0.0
    date: <public date>



### module configuration

A module can have its config set in its own file in the conf/ directory, using the name of the module for configuration file name:
    <module name>.yml

Module configuration can be also included in the main application configuration file Daw.yml, under property with module name.
Module own configuration file settings will have precedence over application configuration.

#### Objects

#### Operations

#### Formatters

#### Providers


### Module dependencies

A module may depend another, as it may use the objects, formatters, providers defined by the module. In this case, you must define in the module *module.info* this dependency through the **requires** property. An optional version can also be specified to define the required version to be used for the dependent module.

    requires:
      user:
      auth: 1.0.0


## Add a module

Adding a module to an existing Daw instance just requires the module to be added to Daw configuration file ''conf/Daw.yml''.

A **modules** property is used to list all modules to be enabled. Each module exist in the *modules/* directory to be enabled.
An optional version can also be specified to define the required version to be used.

    modules:
      core: 1.0.0
      dev:
      Daw:
      schedule:


## Create a new module

Read the dedicated [development documentation](5. Development.md) to learn basics on how to create a new module.




