# Providers

The Daw application relies on some key feature like logging, caching and access restrictions.

The application could have implemented them internally without any possibility to change them other by forking the project or changing the application core code. But the flexibility offered by the modules showed another way to implement them.

Each core feature may be implemented by a *Provider*. A module has the possibility to create its own implementation of the Provider and publish it. It will be then up to the application administrator to choose for each feature which provider to use.

This allows highly flexible way to enhance the core application without having to change any part of its code.


## Supported functionnalities

Current version of the application supports the following functionnalities:
 - **cache**: Manage data caching
 - **log**: Log events
 - **security**: Manage application authentication and access permissions

Each feature is defined using a Provider interface that any module can implement to create its own version of the feature provider. The application does provide default providers for each functionallity so that it can run by itself without the need of any other modules but its bundled core module.


### Create your own feature and provider

You can extend the application by adding your own feature if you think this can be usefule toother modules.

The *Provider* interface is very simple, you just need to implement the *isProviderFor* method to specify for which feature the provider is used for, and the method.

    abstract class Provider {

        /**
         * Return TRUE if this provider serves the specified feature
         *
         * @param string $feature
         */
        public abstract function isProviderFor($feature);
    }


It is recommended to create an interface to allow other modules to create their own providers in case they do not want to used your provider.


## Access to functionnalities

Not only the application may have access to the functionnalities. Modules may also use it very easily.

Each feature can be used by accessing the property of the Core application instance with the name of the feature:

  $this->core->cache // access to the Cache provider
  $this->core->log // access to the Log provider
  $this->core->cache // access to the Security provider



Choice of the provider is made via the *Daw.yml* file, using the **providers*
* property:

    providers:
      log: Core
      security: Core
      cache: Core

 
### Change default provider

To give an example, **cache** is a feature supported by the application. The *core* module, bundled with the application, provides a simple implementation of this feature through a *CacheProvider* class that uses simple files to store cached data.
 
You could decide, for performance reasons, to switch from this simple implementation to a more efficient caching mechanism, like APC. The **Apc** module does publish a Provider for the cache feature using this mechanism.

The administrator can therefore, in the application daw.yml file, update the providers section and use the apc cache provider:

    providers:
      cache: Apc
