# Cache provider

The cache provider does contains all necessary methods used to store data in a cache and retrieve data out of it.

Each module wishing to implement a cache management system for the application shall implement the following interface as a *CacheProvider* class located in its module directory *Providers/CacheProvider.inc*:

    abstract class CacheProvider extends \Daw\Core\Provider\Provider {

        /**
         * Return TRUE if this provider serves the specified feature
         *
         * @param string $feature
         * @return boolean
         */
        public function isProviderFor($feature) {
            return $feature === 'cache';
        }

        /**
         * Return TRUE if a data is stored for the passed key
         *
         * @param string $key case is supported
         * @return boolean
         */
        public abstract function contains($key);

        /**
         * Return data stored for the passed key.
         *
         * If no data exists for the given key, the method should return NULL.
         *
         * @param string $key case is supported
         * @return object
         */
        public abstract function get($key);

        /**
         * Store data in cache and identified by the passed key
         *
         * @param string key case is supported
         * @param object data
         */
        public abstract function add($key, $data);

        /**
         * Remove data identified by the passed key from cache
         *
         * Upon successful removal, key will not be associated with any data anymore.
         * A call to contains or get will return respectively FALSE and NULL.
         *
         * @param string key
         * @param object data
         */
        public abstract function remove($key, $data);

        /**
         * Purge cache data
         *
         * The cache will be completely cleared, all calls to contains or get
         * will return respectively FALSE and NULL.
         */
        public abstract function purge();
    }


## Workflow

Implementing this provider allows a module to manage cached data the way it wants. Users are given the minimal set of methods required to manage data, and it will be up to the implemeting class to publish new methods if any additionnal functionnality is available with the caching mechanism

### Storing data to cache

    $data = "My new data to be stored";
    $this->core->cache->add('My Key', $data);

Any kind of data could be theorically stored. The implementation of the cache may implement different ways for serializing the data before storing it in cache. It is therefore important to read the documentation of the cache mechanism you actually use to know how data is serialized and what type of objects can be cached without requiring any pre-processing.

Note that if data was already available in cache for the given key, its contents will be erased by the new data to be stored.


### Retrieving data from cache


    if ($this->core->cache->contains('My Key')) {
        $data = $this->core->cache->get('My Key');
    }


### Cache Storage

The way cache data is managed is left to the actual log providers implementing this functionnality.

