# Security provider

A security provider has 2 goals:
- authenticate users using an **authenticate** method
- verify user access to operations via **hasAccess** method


Implementing such provider requires therefore to implement these 2 methods defined in a **SecurityProvider** interface. The implementing class shall be named the same and be located in module as *Providers/SecurityProvider.inc*.


    abstract class SecurityProvider extends \Daw\Core\Provider\Provider {

        /**
        * Return TRUE if this provider serves the specified feature
        *
        * @param string $feature
        */
        public function isProviderFor($feature) {
            return $feature === 'security';
        }

        /**
         * Perform the authentication of the user
         * Return TRUE if authentication is successful
         *
         * @param array $token
         */
        public abstract function authenticate($token);

        /**
         * Check if user has access to the specified operation
         *
         * @param string $module
         * @param string $object
         * @param string $operation
         */
        public abstract function hasAccess($module, $object, $operation);
    }



## Workflow

### Authenticating users


        /**
         * Perform the authentication of the user.
         * Return authenticated used if successful, or NULL otherwise.
         *
         * @param array $token
         * @return object authenticated user
         */
        public abstract function authenticate($token);


The **authenticate** method is called by Daw core engine each time it is invoked from one of the available services (CLI, WEB, API) in order to perform authentication and save the newly authenticate user to a Daw global variable **user**. If the authentication is successful, the method shall therefore return an object representing the user who successfully authenticated. If user failed the authentication, the application will exist immediately with explanatory error message.

    /**
     * Start processing
     *
     * @param Service $service
     */
    public function start($service = null) {
        ...
        // Authenticate user
        $this->register($this->security->authenticate($this->request->getAuthenticationToken()), 'user');


The authenticated user will need be available from any module like this:

    $this->core->user


#### User

 It is left to the security provider to define the class that will correspond to users accessing Daw. A default implementation is provided by Core module, but module may without any problem extend this class or use a completely different class for managing users inside the application.


#### Authentication Token

The only argument passed to the **authenticate** method is an *authentication token*. This latter contains all information that could be used by the security provider to authenticate user. This token is provided by the request class corresponding to the service invoked using its **getAuthenticationToken** method.

    abstract class ServiceRequest {
        ...
        /**
         * Provides information related to the user authentication
         *
         * @return array
         */
        public abstract function getAuthenticationToken();
    }


##### Command line

Command line service expects for example `DAW_USERNAME` and `DAW_PASSWORD` parameters to be passed when calling daw. They will be used to set respectively a **username** and **password** key-value pair in an array representing the authentication token.


    class CliServiceRequest extends ServiceRequest {
        ...
        public function getAuthenticationToken() {
            $token = array();
            if (isset($_SERVER['DAW_USERNAME'])) {
                $token['username'] = $_SERVER['DAW_USERNAME'];
            }
            if (isset($_SERVER['DAW_PASSWORD'])) {
                $token['password'] = $_SERVER['DAW_PASSWORD'];
            }

            return $token;
        }
    }

##### API

API service uses *Basic HTTP authentication* in order to let user specify his username and password. The same authentication token array will be then filled and passwed to the **authenticate** method.

    class ApiServiceRequest extends ServiceRequest {
        ...
        public function getAuthenticationToken() {
            $token = array();
            if (isset($_SERVER['PHP_AUTH_USER'])) {
                $token['username'] = $_SERVER['PHP_AUTH_USER'];
            }
            if (isset($_SERVER['PHP_AUTH_PW'])) {
                $token['password'] = $_SERVER['PHP_AUTH_PW'];
            }

            return $token;
        }
    }



### Accessing Operations

    /**
     * Check if user has access to the specified operation
     *
     * @param string $module
     * @param string $object
     * @param string $operation
     */
    public abstract function hasAccess($module, $object, $operation);


The **hasAccess** method is called by Daw core engine before an operation shall be called to ensure authenticated user has the permission to access this operation.

each time it is invoked from one of the available services (CLI, WEB, API) in order to perform authentication and save the newly authenticate user to a Daw global variable **user**. If the authentication is successful, the method shall therefore return an object representing the user who successfully authenticated.

    /**
     * Call module operation
     */
    protected function callModule($module, $object, $operation, $params = array(), $system = false) {
        ...
        // Check that user has access to module operation
        if (!$this->sudo && $this->security->hasAccess($module, $object, $operation) !== true) {
            throw new \Daw\Core\Exception\Exception("You are not authorized to access this operation ($module, $object, $operation).");
        }

        $moduleInstance = $this->modules[$module];
        $response = $moduleInstance->call($object, $operation, $params);

        return $response;
    }


Is passed to the method all parameters that could be useful for checking access:
- The name of the **module** implementing the operation requested
- The name of the **object** associated to the operation requested, if any. If the operation is not associated with an object, this argument will be null
- The name of the **operation** requested

This check is performed **after the user has been authenticated**, meaning that `$this->core->user` shall provide the information related to the authenticated user.

The method shall return TRUE if access is allowed, in which case the operation is actually called by the application.

If access is forbidden, the application will exit immediately with self explanatory error message.