# Daw Development

The Daw project provides also a platform for building your own modules to access your data and internal applications. It contains tools for generating documentation, running your unit tests, and checking your code quality.

## Coding a new module

Steps for building a new module are the following:
 * Create your module repository
 * Add new objects
 * Add operations
 * Create providers
 * Define formatters
 * Test your module
 * Generate documentation

### Create your module repository

Create a new module is as easy as creating a new directory under Daw *modules* directory and add into it a **module.info** file and a **Module.inc** file.

Refer to the [modules](../4.1 Modules.md) documentation for a full description of Daw modules

#### module.info

This file contains the description of the module and all objects, operations, providers he wants to publish to the users. Below is the minimal contents of what the file shall be composed of:

    # Module Description
    #
    # @version $Id$
    # @author Axel Tessier <axel.tessier@extendev.net>

    name: <Name of your Module>
    version: 1.0.0
    date: <public date>



#### Module.inc

Create the file in your module directory and append the following code.

    <?php

    namespace \Daw\Modules\<my module directory>;

    /**
     * My Module base class
     *
     * @package Daw
     * @subpackage Module<My Module Name>
     */
    class Module extends \Daw\Core\Module\Module {
    }


Daw will now be able to see your module as a valid directory. You will then be able to define in this class all module initialization / destruction phases per your needs.


#### Using skeleton module

A *skeleton* module is bundled with Daw in the modules directory. You can copy it, rename it and update *module.info* and *Module.inc* to start with a fresh valid base.


### Add new objects

Creating a new object published by the module is as easy as:
 * Adding a file in the *objects/* module directory
 * Adding its definition in the *module.info* description file

If you want your module to create a new **CreditCard** object, add a file *objects/CreditCard.inc* with following contents:

    <?php

    namespace Daw\Modules\<my module directory>\objects;

    class CreditCard extends \Daw\Core\Object\Object  {
        protected $name;
        protected $number;
        protected $expirationDate;
    }

Refer to the [Objects](../4.2 Objects.txt) documentation for a full description of objects


### Add operations

Like objects, module operations are created by :
 * Adding a file in the *operations/* module directory
 * Adding its definition in the *module.info* description file

An operation may be run against an object created by this module or any other module, or run solely against directory the module (like an *help* operation)


Refer to the [Operations](../4.3 Operations.md) documentation for a full description of operations


### Define formatters

A module can implement its own formatter in order to format objects the way it wants. A formatter shall be created in the 'formatters/' directory and be declared in the *module.info* file:


Refer to the [Formatters](../4.4 Formatters.md) documentation for more details.


### Create providers

A provider is a library that can be used transparently by any module for handling specific functionnality (cache, authentication, log...).
Any module can implement its own version of a provider. It is then up to the application manager to choose the provider to use for a given functionnality.

Refer to the [Providers](../4.5 Providers.md) documentation on how to create your providers.


## Test your module

PHPUnit tests can be used for running unit tests against your module. Just add in the *tests/* directory all your unit tests, and launch the test suite by running from the module root directory:

    $> phpunit

Results of the tests will be published in the standard output and also in the *docs/tests/* directory

Refer to the [Operations](../4.3 Operations.md) documentation for a full description of operations


### Generate documentation

[phpDocumentor](http://phpdoc.org/) can be used to automatically generate an API reference for your module. Add docblocks with expected [tags](http://www.phpdoc.org/docs/latest/for-users/phpdoc/tag-reference.html) and generate your doc by running from the module root directory:

    $> phpdoc

Module documentation will be generated in the *docs/references/* module sub-directory.

Refer to the [Testing](../5.3 Testing.md) documentation for more details on how to tweak your unit tests and what other tests are available to control your module code quality
